tutorials/README.md, before:

<div align="center">
    <picture>
      <img width="75%", alt="Tutorials" src="../assets/images/tutorial_ezlo.png">
    </picture>
  </a>
</div>

# Tutorials

This is a list of all our tutorials. They are all self-contained ipython notebooks.

|                    | what?                                                                                                                                                                      | Link |
|--------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| **Recipe search** | Learn how to do lightning-fast semantic search by distilling a small model. Compare a really tiny model to a larger with one with a better vocabulary. Learn what Fattoush is (delicious). | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/minishlab/model2vec/blob/master/tutorials/recipe_search.ipynb)     |

Commit message:

docs: Add deduplication tutorial (#72)
* WIP

* Updated deduplication notebook

* Updated readme

* Updated notebook

* Added some baselines

* Added some baselines

* Added some baselines

* Added train test bleed example

* Added train test bleed example

* Added train test bleed example

* Added train test bleed example

* Updates

* Updates

* Updated print

tutorials/README.md, after:

<div align="center">
    <picture>
      <img width="75%", alt="Tutorials" src="../assets/images/tutorial_ezlo.png">
    </picture>
  </a>
</div>

# Tutorials

This is a list of all our tutorials. They are all self-contained ipython notebooks.

|                    | what?                                                                                                                                                                      | Link |
|--------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------|
| **Recipe search**   | Learn how to do lightning-fast semantic search by distilling a small model. Compare a really tiny model to a larger with one with a better vocabulary. Learn what Fattoush is (delicious). | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/minishlab/model2vec/blob/master/tutorials/recipe_search.ipynb)     |
| **Semantic deduplication** | Learn how Model2Vec can be used to detect duplicate texts. Clean your dataset efficiently by finding both exact and semantic duplicates. Detect train-test leakage. | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/minishlab/model2vec/blob/master/tutorials/semantic_deduplication.ipynb) |
